# WSTRESS
Numerical Evaluation of Probabilistic Fracture Parameters for 3-D Cracked Solids and Calibration of Weibull Stress Parameters

WSTRESS is a research code for computation of probabilistic fracture parameters applicable to 3-D cracked solids based upon a micromechanics (local) approach incorporating the statistics of microcracks. WSTRESS computes the Weibull stress (either the standard Beremin model and its modified form) and performs the calibration of the Weibull parameters from fracture mechanics test data. Recent developments have focused on analyzing the effects of constraint loss on macroscopic measures of cleavage fracture toughness. These efforts provided WSTRESS with key capabilities to address the strong effects of constraint on cleavage fracture behavior and to incorporate effects of plastic strain on cleavage fracture toughness in a probabilistic framework. On-going work continues to provide WSTRESS with additional capabilities to support other engineering-level applications in fracture assessments of cracked solids and structural components containing crack-like flaws.
WSTRESS implements a simple form of the weakest link model applicable to 3-D cracked solids under arbitrary loading conditions. Effects of local inhomogeneity and random characteristics of the material at the microscale level are included by using the asymptotic theory of extreme values to describe the distribution of flaw size in the material. Further, the methodology couples the (stress-strain) loading history in the near-tip region where fracture takes place with the (operative) microstructural fracture mechanism. The Weibull stress then emerges as a probabilistic fracture parameter reflecting the local damage of material near the crack tip. Hence, overall fracture conditions in a specimen or structural component may be described by evolution of this micromechanistically based parameter with the macroscopic loading, defined conveniently by J or CTOD. The formulation currently implemented in WSTRESS conveniently handles the inhomogeneous character of the near-tip stress fields and computes the Weibull stress by integration of the local tensile stresses using a numerical scheme at the element level. As a further capability, the methodology implemented in WSTRESS also enables incorporation of effects of near-tip plastic strain on cleavage microcracking which impacts directly the magnitude of the Weibull stress and, consequently, the toughness scaling correction.
WSTRESS takes input commands to define the numerical (finite element) model, solution parameters, experimental toughness data and output requests in a format-free, English-like structure from a user-specified input file. This input file may include extensive user comments and is thus self-documenting. Finite element results required to compute the Weibull stress consist of displacements, stresses and strains in standard Patran format (binary or ascii) written directly by the finite element code WARP3D.
